.\"
.\" This source code copyright (c) Hexago Inc. 2002-2004.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it 
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL) Version 2, 
.\" June 1991 as published by the Free  Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, 
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;  without even the implied warranty of 
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License 
.\" along with this program; see the file GPL_LICENSE.txt. If not, write 
.\" to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, 
.\" MA 02111-1307 USA
.\"
.\" tspc.conf.5,v 1.6 2004/07/07 19:54:18 smitra Exp
.\"
.Th Tunnel Setup Protocol client: File formats manual
.Dd April, 2001
.Dt TSPC.CONF 5
.Os BSD 4.2
.Sh NAME
.Nm tspc
.Nd tspc configuration file
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm tspc.conf
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Xr tspc 8
is a client program which enables a host to query a tunnel server to establish
a tunnel between the host and the server. The tspc configuration file contains
information that is read by 
.Xr tspc 8
for specific information about the server and the tunnel to be established.
.Pp
This file is designed to be human readable and may be edited by any text
editor. The file consists of tokens and values, which are separated by the
equal sign. Each "Token=Value" pair must be on their own line.
.Pp
The different configuration options are:
.Bl -tag -width 
.It Sy tsp_dir
The current directory where tspc programs and templates are located. This
variable might look something like this:
.Pp
tsp_dir=/usr/local/tsp
.Pp
This variable is MANDATORY.
.It Sy auth_method
Authentication method: auth_method=any|digest-md5|anonymous|plain
.Pp
.Pa any 
is the preferred one. The most secure mechanism common to the client 
and the broker will be used.  
.Pp
.Pa digest-md5 
sends the username in clear, but not the password.  
.Pp
.Pa plain 
sends both username and password in clear.  
.Pp
.Pa anonymous
sends no username and no password.
.Pp
Default: any
.It Sy client_v4
IPv4 address of the client tunnel endpoint. If the host has more than one
IPv4 address, it is recommended to manually set this variable with its local
IPv4 address as value. If set to auto, it chooses the source ip used when
communicating with the server. This variable might look something like this:
.Pp
client_v4=a.b.c.d
.Pp
client_v4=auto
.Pp
Default: any
.It Sy userid
The userid is used for authentication to the server. By default tspc uses
anonymous as the userid. The TSP protocol allows both anonymous and
authenticated tunnel setup. Look at the server policies for supported modes and
related services and for procedures to register your user name. The syntax is:
.Pp
userid=anonymous|user_name
.Pp
This variable is MANDATORY.
.It Sy passwd
passwd=your_password
.Pp
Leave empty if userid=anonymous


.It Sy server
Name and port number of the tunnel server. This variable is used to specify the
TSP server to be queried. An IPv4 address or FQDN (Fully Qualify Domain Name)
can be used. The port number is optional. Default TSP port is 3653.
.Pp
server=host[:port]
.Pp
server=broker.freenet6.net
.Pp
server=192.168.1.1:3653
.Pp
This variable is MANDATORY


.It Sy template
This parameter is used to tell which configuration template must be used to
configure the tunnel. The configuration template is a script file, located in
the template directory of the package, that contains the system commands to be
executed for tunnel setup. The parameters are passed to the script file as
environment variables. Normally the template parameter is set when the package
is built for the specific operating system. Look in the template directory to
see which ones are available. The template name must be the file name without
the .sh or .bat suffix.
.Pp 
template=linux
.Pp
This variable is MANDATORY.


.It Sy retry_delay
The retry_delay option is used to set the number of seconds to sleep before
retrying tunnel request to tsp server after request failure. It will 
retry until success. Set it to 0 if you don't want to retry.
.Pp
Default: 30
.It Sy tunnel_mode
Tunnel encapsulation mode:
.Pp
tunnel_mode can take the following values
.Pp
"v6v4"  request an IPv6 in IPv4 tunnel
.Pp
"v6udpv4" request an IPv6 in UDP in IPv4 tunnel (for clients behind a NAT)
This type of tunnel is supported under Linux, FreeBSD and Windows.
.Pp
"v6anyv4"   Let the broker choose the tunnel mode appropriate for my client
with v6anyv4, the broker will discover if the client is behind a NAT or not
and will offer to the TSP client the correct tunnel mode.  
.Pp
Default: v6anyv4

.It Sy if_tunnel_v6v4
Logical interface name that will be used for the configured tunnel (IPv6 over
IPv4). The syntax is:
.Pp
if_tunnel_v6v4=name
.Pp
Under *BSD: gif0
.Pp
Under Linux: sit0
.Pp
Under Windows: 2
.Pp
This variable is MANDATORY.

.It Sy if_tunnel_v6udpv4
Logical interface name that will be used for v6udpv4 tunnels (IPv6 over
UDPv4). The syntax is:
.Pp
if_tunnel_v6udpv4=name
.Pp
Under FreeBSD: tun1
.Pp
Under Linux: tun
.Pp
Under Windows: tunv6
.Pp

.It Sy proxy_client
proxy_client indicates that this client acts as a TSP proxy for
some remote client tunnel endpoint machine. It is set to "yes" 
if the machine running the tsp client requests a tunnel for another machine.
(e.g: cisco template).  This must be used with a static IPv4 address in 
client_v4 variable.
.Pp
NOTE: proxy_client=yes is incompatible with tunnel_mode=v6udpv4
.Pp
Default: no
.Pp
.It Sy keepalive 
keepalive indicates that this client will send keepalives to keep the
tunnel active and detect inactive tunnel (if no response from
server). When a tunnel is detected inactive, the TSP client
automatically reconnects to the server.
keepalive_interval is a suggestion from the TSP client to the broker
for the interval between two keepalive messages. The broker
may impose a different interval value to the client if the interval
value is too low.
.Pp
keepalive=yes
.Pp
Default: yes
.Pp
.It Sy keepalive_interval
.Pp
keepalive_interval=30
.Pp
Default: 30
.Pp
.It Sy host_type
In order to configure the machine as a router, a prefix must be requested
and an interface must be specified.  The prefix will be advertised
on that interface.
.Pp
host_type=host|router
.Pp
Default: host
.Pp
.It Sy prefixlen
prefixlen specifies the required prefix length for the TSP client
network. Valid values are 64 or 48. 64 is for one link. 48 is for
a whole enterprise network (65K links).
.Pp
Default: 48
.Pp
.It Sy if_prefix
if_prefix is the name of the OS interface that will be configured
with the first /64 of the received prefix from the broker and the
router advertisement daemon is started to advertise that prefix
on the if_prefix interface.
.Pp
.It Sy dns_server
This parameter is used to specify the DNS servers that should be used for
reverse DNS delagation of the prefix allocated. Syntax is:
.Pp
dns_server=fqdn[:fqdn]...
.Pp
For example, to use ns1.nowhere.net and ns1.nowhere.net as authoritative NS
servers for reverse DNS of the prefix, this line would be used in tspc.conf:
.Pp
dns_server=ns1.nowhere.net:ns2.nowhere.net
.Pp
Never use an IP address as a DNS server name.
.Pp
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /install/dir/bin/tspc.conf -compact
.It Pa /install/dir/bin/tspc.conf
.It Pa /install/dir/bin/tspc.conf.sample
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tcpc 8 ,
.Rs
Hexago Web site: http://www.hexago.com
.Re
.\".Sh HISTORY
