.\"
.\" This source code copyright (c) Hexago Inc. 2002-2004.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it 
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License (GPL) Version 2, 
.\" June 1991 as published by the Free  Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, 
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;  without even the implied warranty of 
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License 
.\" along with this program; see the file GPL_LICENSE.txt. If not, write 
.\" to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, 
.\" MA 02111-1307 USA
.\"
.\" tspc.8,v 1.5 2004/07/07 19:50:43 smitra Exp
.\"
.Dd July, 2004
.Dt TSPC 8
.Os TSP Client
.Sh NAME
.Nm tspc
.Nd tunnel setup protocol client
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm tspc
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl ?\&
.Nm tspc
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl f Ar config_file
.Op Fl i Ar interface_name
.Op Fl u Ar interface_name
.Op Fl s Ar interface_name
.Op Fl r Ar retry delay
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm tspc
provides a mean to configure a tunnel obtained from a tunnel server which is
compliant to the tunnel setup protocol (TSP).
.Nm tspc
will connect to a tunnel server and request a tunnel according to the
specifications inside the configuration file.  As a background process, it will then monitor the state of the tunnel.  In the event of a timeout, tspc will reestablish a new tunnel.
.Pp
.Nm tspc
currently supports two types of tunnels:  
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 
.It Sy - v6v4 (IPv6 over IPv4)
Supported on FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD, Linux, Windows, Solaris, Darwin.
.Pp
.It Sy - v6udpv4 (IPv6 over UDP over IPv4)
Supported on FreeBSD, Linux and Windows.
.Pp
.Sh ARGUMENTS
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl h 
Display a short usage summary and quit.
.Pp
.It Fl v
Verbose level is set according to the number of v's on the 
command line.
.br
-v, -vv, -vvv are valid.
.Pp
.It Fl f Ar configuration_file
Specifies a different configuration file.  
.br
Default is /installdir/bin/tspc.conf. 
.Pp
.It Fl s Ar interface_name
Overrides 
.Nm client_v4 
in 
.Xr tspc.conf 5 
.Pp
.It Fl i Ar interface_name
Overrides 
.Nm if_tunnel_v6v4 
in 
.Xr tspc.conf 5 
.Pp
.It Fl u Ar interface_name
Overrides 
.Nm if_tunnel_v6udpv4 
in 
.Xr tspc.conf 5 
.Pp
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
If verbose mode is on, messages will be sent to tspc.log and syslog.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tspc.conf 5
.br
http://www.hexago.com
.Sh ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This software uses code taken from other organisations as :
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It - Ar "RSA data security for md5."
.It - Ar "The Apache Software Foundation for Base64 encoding and decoding."
.It - Ar "OpenVPN by James Yohan"
.Sh AUTHORS
Hexago Inc.
.br
http://www.hexago.com
.br
mailto://support@hexago.com
.br
